# Arthur Conan Doyle
Arthur Conan Doyle was born in Edinburgh on 22 May 1859. His father Charles Altamont Doyle was an artist and suffered from alcoholism. His mother Mary Doyle was a reader and storyteller. At the age of ten he was sent to a strict Jesuit boarding school in England and spent seven years there until he graduated. There he also discovered his aptitude for storytelling and made up entertaining stories for the younger pupils.

After graduating in 1876, he returned to his homeland. There he studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh, where he met his teacher Dr. Joseph Bell. The Scottish doctor is considered as a pioneer of forensic medicine till this day. He recognized and taught the importance of observation, logic and deduction for the diagnosis of diseases and for the work of pathology. Doyle was so fascinated by Bell's abilities that he gave them to his character Sherlock Holmes.

While his medical studies, in 1879, Doyle published his short story "The Mystery of Sasassa Valley" in a magazine. In 1881 he graduated and eventually settled in Portsmouth to open his first practice. Gradually the practice became a success and a comfortable income. In August 1885 he married Louisa Hawkins.

In March 1886 Conan Doyle began writing his book "A study in Scarlet". Two years later, he published his book, which became such great success, that the edition sold out immediately. Doyle went on to write a series of historical novels, poetry and plays.

Doyle published his next novel in 1890 under the title "The Sign of Four", which was also a great success. He wrote another series of short stories about Sherlock Holmes and signed a contract with a famous publisher and printed the stories for decades, which made Doyle even more famous. After a serious illness, Doyle decided to give up his medical career and devote himself entirely to writing.

A year later, he decided to get rid of his famous detective and had Sherlock Holmes die in “The Final Problem” in 1893. As a result, he lost many readers. But Doyle felt liberated from the pressures that came with the fame. After his wife was diagnosed with tuberculosis, Doyle did everything he could to keep her alive. It is likely that the despair over his wife's illness plunged him into a depression, based of which he turned further and further to spiritualism.

In 1900, after the outbreak of the Boer War, Doyle volunteered as a doctor and set off for Africa. He wrote down his experiences in his work “The Great Boer War”. After returning from the war, he wrote the novel “The Hound of the Baskervilles”, but it was missing a hero, so he made it a Sherlock Holmes adventure. But he made the story look like an earlier, yet unknown case, so as not to have to bring the detective back from the dead. 

After the death of his wife in 1906, Doyle fell into a depression and, to distract himself, he tried himself as a detective, by offering his services to Scotland Yard. He assisted in the investigation of the case of George Edalji, who had been wrongly convicted of mutilating several animals, and was eventually able to prove his innocence. In 1909, Doyle wrote a polemic on the plunder and enslavement of the Congo.

In 1907, Doyle married Jean Leckie. They had three children.

After the outbreak of the First World War in 1914, Doyle volunteered again as a military doctor but was rejected. He became involved by forming a civilian battalion. At the end of 1917, Doyle's new Sherlock Holmes novel His Last Bow was published. Two years later, Doyle was given permission to visit the front and act as a war observer. He saw the atrocities of war at close quarters and experienced them first hand as his son, brother, both brothers-in-law and both nephews fell in battle. After these cruel experiences, he was drawn back to spiritualism.

He published another book and his last two Sherlock Holmes stories. In 1929 he was diagnosed with heart disease. On the morning of 7th July 1930, Doyle died. His grave is still preserved in a cemetery in the small English village of Minstead.



# chapter 1 to 5
Our first glimpse of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson is in their home office at 221b Baker Street in London. Watson examines a mysterious cane left in the office by an unknown visitor, and Holmes sits with his back facing his friend. Holmes asks Watson what he makes of it, and Watson declares that his friend must "have eyes in the back of his head," since he saw what he was doing. Holmes admits that he saw Watson's reflection in the coffee service, proving to Watson and us that he is an astute observer.

Watson offers up his theory as to the origin of the walking stick, declaring that the inscription, "To James Mortimer, M.R.C.S., from his friends of the C.C.H.," suggests an elderly doctor who was awarded the object after years of faithful service. Holmes encourages Watson's speculation, and the doctor continues, saying that the well-worn stick implies a country practitioner who walks about quite a bit. In addition, the C.C.H., he suggests, is probably the mark of "the something hunt," a local group to whom Mortimer provided some service.

Mortimer presents Holmes and Watson with a manuscript which the always observant Holmes had already noticed and dated at 1730. The document, dated 1742, Baskerville Hall, reveals the myth of the Baskerville curse. At the time of the "Great Revolution," Mortimer reads, Hugo Baskerville lorded over the Baskerville mansion in Devonshire. Sex crazed and lecherous, the infamous Hugo became obsessed with a local yeoman's daughter, whom he kidnapped one day. Trapped in an upstairs room, hearing the raucous drinking and carousing going on downstairs, the girl escaped with the help of an ivy-covered wall. She fled across the expansive moorlands outside. Enraged at finding that his captive escaped, Hugo made a deal with the devil and released his hounds in pursuit of the young girl. Hugo's companions had followed their drunken friend across the moorland, and came upon the bodies of both Hugo and his girl. Hugo had just had his throat ripped out by "a foul thing, a great, black beast." Ever since, Mortimer reports, the supernatural hound has haunted the family. The hound just recently killed Sir Charles Baskerville, the latest inhabitant of Baskerville Hall.

Mortimer presents Holmes and Watson with a manuscript which the always observant Holmes had already noticed and dated at 1730. The document, dated 1742, Baskerville Hall, reveals the myth of the Baskerville curse. At the time of the "Great Revolution," Mortimer reads, Hugo Baskerville lorded over the Baskerville mansion in Devonshire. Sex crazed and lecherous, the infamous Hugo became obsessed with a local yeoman's daughter, whom he kidnapped one day. Trapped in an upstairs room, hearing the raucous drinking and carousing going on downstairs, the girl escaped with the help of an ivy-covered wall. She fled across the expansive moorlands outside. Enraged at finding that his captive escaped, Hugo made a deal with the devil and released his hounds in pursuit of the young girl. Hugo's companions had followed their drunken friend across the moorland, and came upon the bodies of both Hugo and his girl. Hugo had just had his throat ripped out by "a foul thing, a great, black beast." Ever since, Mortimer reports, the supernatural hound has haunted the family. The hound just recently killed Sir Charles Baskerville, the latest inhabitant of Baskerville Hall.
# chapter 5 to 10
Henry's hotel is where Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson arrive for lunch. Holmes pretends to look at the register and asks the receptionist about the other guests. He comes to the conclusion that the individual who sent Sir Henry the warning is not staying at his hotel. 

The young man reveals that another boot, this one from an older pair, was stolen as they approach Sir Henry's room. Dr. Mortimer mentions that the butler Barrymore at Baskerville Hall has a beard, and Holmes tells Sir Henry about the man who followed them with a beard. 

Holmes discovers during their discussion of Sir Charles's will that the bearded butler Barrymore and his wife were among the beneficiaries. Sir Henry, on the other hand, receives most of the estate. In order to confirm Barrymore's presence in Devonshire, Holmes sends a wire to Baskerville Hall and asks that only the butler receive it. 

Under a cabinet, curiously, Sir Henry discovers his lost new boot. Holmes asks Watson to go to Devonshire to protect Sir Henry because she becomes more and more convinced that something is going on. In order for Holmes, who is too preoccupied with other cases to leave London, to observe Watson's investigation from afar, regular reports are requested. 

Holmes receives a cable confirming that Barrymore is indeed at Baskerville Hall after returning to Baker Street. The taxi driver tells Sherlock Holmes that Cartwright's fare was a bearded man named Sherlock Holmes when he returns without any newspaper fragments. Holmes is amused and suggests that the man is communicating with him personally. 

Summary of Chapter 6 Holmes, asks Watson to look into the villagers and report back to him before he leaves. For safety's sake, Dr. Watson takes his gun. 

Watson finds out when he arrives in Devonshire that it is believed that a fugitive killer is hiding on the moor. Sir Henry takes note of Watson's observation of the gloomy moor and Watson's admiration of the landscape as they travel to Baskerville Hall. Sir Henry promises to install lights as he approaches the manor to dispel the gloom. 

Dr. Mortimer goes home upon arrival, while Sir Henry and Watson meet the butler, Barrymore. In awe of his family's past, Sir Henry looks at the wall portraits. Given the melancholy atmosphere in Baskerville Hall, Sir Henry acknowledges his uncle's anxiety during dinner. Watson hears a woman crying that night. 

Summary of Chapter 7.
Watson and Sir Henry agree that in sunlight, the manor's atmosphere appears less ominous the next morning, but they both heard a woman sob the night before. They must be wrong, Barrymore claims, because his wife was not crying. However, Mrs. Barrymore's eyes are red and swollen, as if she had just cried, when Watson comes across them. Watson decides to make sure that the trick Holmes used to determine that Barrymore was in Devonshire actually worked as planned after pondering why Barrymore would lie and why his wife would cry. The postmaster's messenger, on the other hand, reveals that he gave Mrs. Barrymore the cable instead. 

Watson meets Jack Stapleton, an entomologist on the lookout for butterflies, as he makes his way back to Baskerville Hall. Stapleton is aware of Holmes and Watson and seems interested in the case that he must be investigating; Watson, on the other hand, keeps his identity a secret. Stapleton describes the area, pointing out the dangers of the moor as well as the Neolithic stone hut ruins. When they watch from a distance as a pony drowns in Grimpen Mire, they feel the danger. A loud moan abruptly interrupts their conversation. Even though Stapleton asserts that it could just as easily be the sound of a rare bird, he suggests that the locals might attribute the sound to the hound. 

At the point when Stapleton pursues a butterfly, his sister, an extraordinary marvel, who seems to be her sibling, botches Watson for Sir Henry and cautions him to leave the region. Chapter 8: Watson discovers that Stapleton was a schoolmaster at Merripit House. Although Holmes only asked for the facts, Watson begins his report by describing the bleak and lonely moor. Watson continues, "The escaped convict has probably fled the area because he could not survive for that long without food." Beryl Stapleton's brother does not appear to agree with the romantic interest Sir Henry appears to have developed in her. Watson adds that Sir Henry apologized to Barrymore for asking him where he was when Holmes's cable arrived by giving him his old tweed suit. Despite Barrymore's wife's continued distress, Watson maintains his suspicion of her. Dr. Watson also says he met Mr. Frankland, a friendly but litigious man who uses a telescope to look for the escaped convict on the moor. 

Watson sees Barrymore sneaking into a room on the second floor with a candle in hand the same night he hears footsteps passing by his room. Chapter 9 According to Watson's second letter home, the room where Barrymore went missing directly overlooks the moor. Barrymore's nightly activities and his wife's tears could be explained by Watson's theory that he is having an affair with a country girl. A stakeout is planned by Watson and Sir Henry. 

For a rendezvous, Sir Henry and Beryl Stapleton meet. Watson observes Beryl's apparent resistance to his romantic advances as she follows him. Her brother arrives and reacts with rage just as Sir Henry moves in to kiss her. Given that Stapleton's sister is single and Sir Henry is a good catch, his reaction seems inappropriate. Stapleton comes to Barrymore Hall later that evening to apologise for his outburst and invites them to Merripit House for dinner. 

Watson and Sir Henry confront Barrymore in the room with a view of the moor on the second night of their stakeout. Watson waves the candle to demonstrate that Barrymore is communicating with someone when Barrymore refuses to provide an explanation. The response is a dim yellow light far out in the moor. Mrs. Barrymore arrives, summoned by the commotion, and reveals that the escaped prisoner is Selden, her younger brother, and that they are signaling to him when they are ready to deliver food or clothing to him. 

To capture the prisoner and bring him to the authorities, Watson and Sir Henry head toward the dim light, but he manages to elude them. Watson sees the outline of a tall man perched atop a tor as they make their way back to Baskerville Hall. 

Chapter 10: On a gloomy day, Watson begins an excerpt from his diary by describing his sense of constant danger. He rejects the idea that his sense of dread might be due to the paranormal as Holmes's substitute, but he can't help but admit that the empirical world has no satisfactory explanation for the thing that baffles him: the moor's howls that can be heard. 

Barrymore reveals that he read the charred remnants of a letter that was sent to Sir Charles on the day of his death. The letter stated that Sir Charles was supposed to meet a woman named L.L. at 10 p.m. that night. This new wind in the secret prompts Watson to compose a letter to Holmes and to concede that he wants to be there. 

Watson contemplates the case while taking a stroll on the moor the following day, despite the rain and sadness. He meets Dr. Mortimer, who is looking for his dog who has gone missing. He asks Dr. Mortimer about the letter's initials on a whim, and she tells him about Laura Lyons of Coombe Tracey, who, after a bad marriage, was able to start a typing business with Sir Charles's help. 

Barrymore informs Watson that Selden regards the man on the tor as a gentleman after seeing him among the stone huts. Watson, on the other hand, wonders if the man's sinister soul is filled with hatred because he is willing to hide in such an inhospitable location as the stone huts. He decides that finding out who the mysterious man on the tor is must be his new task.
# chapter 10 to 15
